This is the final project for University of Virginia School of Data Science's course DS5100.

# Monte_Carlo_Simulator

`Monte_Carlo_Simulator` is a python package containing three classes: `Die`, `Game`, and `Analyzer`. <br />
These three classes serve to mimic the Monte Carlo methods. <br />
Monte Carlo methods are family of techniques first developed by physicists in the 1940s to predict the outcomes of complex stochastic processes, such as nuclear fission and fusion. The behavior of random variables are modeled by chance mechanisms such as dice and computers, using random number generators. The data generated by these mechanisms through sampling are employed to influence the direction of a process.

## Metadata
Name: Ami Kano <br />
GitHub Username: ak7ra <br />
Project Name : Monte Carlo Simulator

## API description
### Classes:
#### Die class
The Die object takes in an array or list of values and creates a die. <br />
Each value in the input array/list becomes a face of the created die. <br />
<br />
Attributes: <br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;None <br />
<br />
Methods: <br />
* `__init__(self, faces)`
    * The initializer function creates the Die object.
    * Parameter(s):
        * `faces` : numpy array or list <br />
          faces is an numpy array or list of type str or int. It can be of any length.
* `change_weight(self, face, new_weight)`
    * The change_weight function changes the weight of a single face on the die.
    * Parameter(s):
        * `face` : str or int <br />
          face of which the weight will be changed
        * `new_weight` : float <br />
          the resulting weight of the face
    * Raises:
        * `ValueError` <br />
          if new_weight is not a float or convertible to float, change_weight will throw this error. <br />
          if face is not on the die, change_weight will throw this error. <br />
    * Returns:
        * None
* `roll(self, roll_num=1)`
    * A method to roll the die one or more times.
    * Parameter(s):
        * `roll_num` : int <br />
          int type parameter of how many times the die is to be rolled; defaults to 1.
    * Returns:
        * `result` : list <br />
          list of outcomes of the rolls.
* `show_faces_weights(self)`
    * A method to show the dataframe consisting of faces and weights of the die.
    * Parameter(s):
        * None
    * Returns:
        * the pandas dataframe consisting of faces and weights of the die

#### Game class
The Game object takes in a list of die to make a game. <br />
A game consists of rolling of one or more dice of the same kind one or more times. <br />
 <br />
Attributes: <br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;None <br />
<br />
Methods: <br />
* `__init__(self, list_of_die)`
    * The initializer function creates the Game object.
    * Parameter(s):
        * `list_of_die` : list <br />
          list_of_die is a list containing objects of the Die type. It can be of any length.
* `play(self, rolls)`
    * A method to play the game; roll each die for a certain amount of time.
    * Parameter(s):
        *  `rolls` : int <br />
           int type parameter of how many times each die is to be rolled.
    * Returns:
        * None
* `show_result(self, form="wide")`
    * A method to return the dataframe including the most recent result from the play method.
    * Parameter(s):
        * `form` : string <br />
          String parameter to determine the format of the returned dataframe. Takes either "narrow" or "wide". <br />
          Defaults to "wide"
    * Raises:
        * `ValueError` <br />
          if the value of the variable form is not "narrow" or "wide", show_result will throw this error.
    * Returns:
        * Pandas dataframe including the most recent result from the play method. <br />
          Shows the roll number, the die number and the face rolled for each roll.

#### Analyzer class
The Analyzer object takes in a game object and analyzes its results. <br />
 <br />
Attributes: <br />
* `jackpot_count` : int <br />
  jackpot_count is an int type attribute that contains the amount of jackpots in the results of the game. <br />
  Defaults to 0. Updated to correct amount when jackpot() is called.
* `jackpot_dataframe` : pandas dataframe <br />
  jackpot_dataframe is a pandas dataframe that contains the rows in which there are jackpots. <br />
  Defaults to an empty dataframe. Updated to correct data when jackpot() is called.
* `combo_frame` : pandas dataframe <br />
  combo_frame is a pandas dataframe that contains all combinations of the rolled face value, along with their occurrence. <br />
  Defaults to an empty dataframe. Updated to correct data when combo() is called.
* `face_count` : pandas dataframe <br />
  face_count is a pandas dataframe that counts the occurrence of each face value in each roll. <br />
  Defaults to an empty dataframe. Updated to correct data when face_counts() is called.
* `die_type` : string <br />
  die_type is a string type attribute. It stores the string specifying the type of face values of the dice.
<br />

Methods: <br />

* `__init__(self, game)`
    * The initializer function creates the Analyzer object.
    * Parameter(s):
        * `game` : Game <br />
          game is a Game object that is to be analyzed.
* `jackpot(self)`
    * A method to count the occurrence of jackpots in the game.
    * Parameter(s):
        * None
    * Returns:
        * Pandas dataframe including the rows in which there were jackpots. <br />
          Shows the roll number, the die number and the face rolled for each roll.
* `combo(self, permutation=False)`
    * A method to return the dataframe that contains all combinations of the rolled face value, along with their occurrence.
    * Parameter(s):
        * `permutation` : Boolean <br />
          Boolean parameter to determine whether the function would count permutations instead of combinations. <br />
          Defaults to False.
    * Returns:
        * Pandas dataframe including all combinations or permutations from a game. <br />
          The face values are turned into multi-indexes. The column shows the occurrences of each combination/permutation.
* `face_counts(self)`
    * A method to return the dataframe that counts the occurrence of each face value in each roll.
    * Parameter(s):
        * None
    * Returns:
        * Pandas dataframe including the counts of the occurrence of each face value in each roll. <br />
          The indexes indicate the roll number, and the columns indicate the face values of the dice.



## Synopsis

### Installing

After downloading this repository, run the code: <br />
`pip install .`

### Importing

Import the montecarlo library with the code: <br />
`import montecarlo` <br />

When trying to import a specific class within the montecarlo library, run the code: <br />
`from montecarlo import insert_class_name` <br />
insert_class_name can be Die, Game, or Analyzer.

### Using Each Class Object

#### Die Object: 

Create the Die object with the initializer, inputting a list or a numpy array containing the face values. <br />
```python
die_object = Die(["face_1", "face_2", "face_3"])
```

To change the weight of a face, call the `change_weight()` method on the Die object. <br />
For example, the code below changes the weight of face_1 to 5.
```python
die_object.change_weight("face_1", 5)
```

To see the existing faces and their respective weights, use the `show_faces_weights()` function. <br/>
This will return a pandas dataframe containing the faces of the die ad their weights.
```python
die_object.show_faces_weights()
```

To roll the die object, use the `roll()` function.
The code below will roll the die once. To roll multiple times, enter value in as parameter.
```python
die_object.roll() #rolls die once
die_object.roll(5) #rolls die five times
```

#### Game Object: 

Create the Game object with the initializer, inputting a list containing similar Die objects. 
```python
game_object = Game([die_object_1, die_object_2, die_object_3])
```

To play the game, call the `play()` function on the Game object. <br />
The parameter `rolls` will determine how many times each die is rolled.
```python
game_object.play(5) #rolls each die five times
```

To see the results from the `play()` function, call the `show_result()` function. This function will return a pandas database containing the result from the most recent play. <br />
Parameter `form` determines the format in which the result is shown - wide or narrow. By default, it is set as wide.
```python
game_object.show_result() #returns wide dataframe of result
```

#### Analyzer Object:

Create the Analyzer object with the initializer, inputting a Game object. 
```python
analyzer_object = Analyzer(game_object)
```

To determine how many jackpots there were in the game, call the `jackpot()` function. 
```python
analyzer_object.jackpot()
```

To see the rolls in which there were jackpots, call the `jackpot_dataframe` attribute. This is a pandas dataframe including only the rolls in which there were jackpots.
```python
analyzer_object.jackpot_dataframe
```

Similarly, the amount of jackpots is stored in the `jackpot_count` attribute.
```python
analyzer_object.jackpot_count
```

To see the combinations of the faces rolled, call the `combo()` method. This function returns a pandas dataframe showing each combination with their occurrence count. <br />
There is a boolean parameter `permutation` that is set as `False` by default. If this parameter is set as `True`, this function will return the permutations instead of the combinations.
```python
analyzer_object.combo() #returns a pandas dataframe showing combinations
analyzer_object.combo(permutation=True) #returns a pandas dataframe showing permutations
```

The `combo_frame` attribute stores the return value of the `combo()` function, and can be called.
```python
analyzer_object.combo_frame
```

The method `face_counts()` returns a dataframe that counts the occurrence of each face value in each roll.
```python
analyzer_object.face_counts()
```

The `face_count` attribute stores the return value of the `face_counts()` function, and can be called.
```python
analyzer_object.face_count
```

The `die_type` attribute tells the user the datatype of the faces used in the game.
```python
analyzer_object.die_type
```



## Manifest
* __init__.py
* montecarlo.py
* montecarlo_tests.py
* montecarlo_demo.ipynb
* FinalProjectSubmission.ipynb
* FinalProjectSubmission.pdf
* setup.py
* LICENSE
* README.md
